---
layout: post
title: NODE.JS PROMISES INSIDE LOOPS TUTORIAL
published: true
---

### Introduction
I started using promises not too long ago. They seem like a serious alternative to using callbacks specially when you are not used to fully work asynchronously.
It was really tough for me in the beginning to perfectly understand promises until I read an awesome article wrote by Matt Greer called <a href="http://www.mattgreer.org/articles/promises-in-wicked-detail/"> JavaScript Promises … In Wicked Detail </a> . This article helped me a lot to understand what a Promise really is and how promises actually work.

### The problem
With all the help the article above provided it still left me with my problem partially unsolved. 
The problem I was trying to solve was: how do I manage to return an array of cached values out of a promise inside a loop?
In order to cache I use Redis database. For the purpose of this blog post I will send a list of users to my filtering method and I will only want to display the ones that are cached in my Redis database.

### The preparation
In order to create a Redis database I am using <a href="https://redislabs.com/">redislabs</a>. To work with Redis from Node.js I am using: <a href="https://github.com/mranney/node_redis">node_redis</a>.
As a promise library I am using <a href="https://github.com/petkaantonov/bluebird">Bluebird</a>. You can also use <a href="https://github.com/kriskowal/q">Q</a>.
I am also using as routing framework <a href="http://expressjs.com/">Express.js </a> with an EJS view template.

### The solution
I will assume that by now you already know how to start an Express basic project and how to install all the dependencies I mentioned above.
Now let’s start with the beginning. 
First we will start by creating a cache module in our project. Inside this module we will do all Redis specific operations.
Let's start by coding a method that will upload a hardcoded list of users. Please bare in mind that this tutorial is for showing how you can return an array of values from an array of promises inside a loop.
/cache/index.js
``` javascript
var redis = require('redis');
var Promise = require("bluebird");

var client = redis.createClient(process.env.REDIS_PORT, process.env.REDIS_URL);
client.auth(process.env.REDIS_PASSWORD);
client = Promise.promisifyAll(client);

module.exports.addUsersToCache = function(users) {
  return client.msetAsync(users);
}
```

Please note that in order to fully use promises we need to promisify the Redis client. If we do that then we must add Async after all method names used by the client. Above you can see: client.msetAsync.

In order to call the above from routes you can use the following code:
/routes/index.js
``` javascript
var express = require('express');
var router = express.Router();
var cache = require('../cache/index.js');

/* GET home page. */
router.get('/', function(req, res, next) {
  cache.addUsersToCache(["user1", "TestUser1", "user2", "TestUser2"]).then(function() {
    res.render('index', { title: 'Express' });
  });
});

module.exports = router;
```
Now, for the next step, let's create a method that will be called with another random array of users and will return only the ones that can be found inside our cache. Add the following code to /cache/index.js:

``` javascript
module.exports.filterCachedUsers = function(users) {
  var cachedUsers = [];

  return Promise.any(Promise.map(users, function(user) {

    return client.getAsync(user).then(function(result) {
      if(result) {
        cachedUsers.push(result);
      }
      return cachedUsers;
    });

  }));

}
```
According to the documentation Promise.any initiates a competitive race between multiple promises or values (values will become immediately fulfilled promises). So, because Promise.map is asynchronous I want to return the first fulfilled promise.
Now let’s display the resulting users on our home page. Please add the following code to your /routes/index.js:

``` javascript
router.get('/get-cached-users', function(req, res) {
  cache.filterCachedUsers(["user1", "user2", "user3", "user4"]).then(function(results) {
    console.log(results[0]);
    res.render('index', {
      title: 'Express',
      users: results});
  })
});
```
And finally lets modify /views/index.ejs to display our cached users:

``` html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <title><%= title %></title>
    <link rel='stylesheet' href='/stylesheets/style.css' />
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1><%= title %></h1>
    <p>Welcome to <%= title %></p>

    <a href="/get-cached-users">Get Cached Users</a>
    <ul>
      <% if(locals.users) { %>
        <% users.forEach( function( user ) { %>
          <li>
            <%= user %>
          </li>
        <% }) %>
      <% } %>
    </ul>
  </body>
</html> 
```

### Conclusion
That was it. Now we get all the cached users out of the list of users we have sent to be filtered. 
Maybe this example was not the most inspired one but the purpose of this tutorial was for you to understand how I managed to return an array of cached values out of a promise inside a loop.
I am just learning about promises and about Node.js in general so, if you found a better solution out there for the problem above please leave it in the description box bellow.
You can find the code on GitHub <a href="https://github.com/andreivisan/nodejs_promises"> here </a>. 
